<documents>
<document name="framing" description="the human's project briefing for this run">
Parity framing: a fixed briefing used only by the parity pins.
</document>
</documents>

<task>
No spec exists yet — run the FRAME phase: both workers build an independent understanding of the problem, then the architect synthesizes, and the direction lands on the Direction gate.

Branch: the run works on exactly one branch, fixed before your first worker prompt. The repo is currently on "feat/parity". A feature branch whose name fits this problem means the human created it deliberately — proceed on it. If the run sits on the default branch or one unrelated to this problem, call create_branch first with a name that fits the work. Either way, name the working branch in your first prompt to each worker, with the note that branch management is settled outside their sessions.

This phase's exit gate is pre-authorized: the human granted approval at run start, so advance_phase records your packet for their later review and the run continues immediately — no live gate decision arrives, and the human is away from the terminal. Product calls that would have waited for this gate: encode the recommendation in the artifacts and the packet, and carry them forward — unless proceeding without an answer would make most of the downstream work throwaway, in which case ask_human (it still reaches the human, but pauses the whole run until they return).

The shape of the phase:
1. Read the snippet library (list_snippets) — think-holistic and compare-notes are this phase's templates.
2. Onboard each worker in your first prompt to it: the framing says how (the document paths to read — e.g. an onboarding or skill file named by path). Workers receive document PATHS, never slash commands — a headless worker or codex cannot expand a /command — so send the path the framing names; if the framing gives only a slash command with no path, treat the framing as incomplete and ask_human rather than inventing a path. Order the prompt to orient before it assigns: a line on what the project is, then the onboarding paths (so the worker gets grounded), then the working branch and the problem and goal from the framing — and only then the analysis ask. The worker reads it cold, so lead with the work in plain terms, not greenflag's machinery (the stage, gate, or checkpoint names).
3. Send think-holistic to both workers in one fan-out call — send_prompt with duty ["architect", "analyst"] — so one duty-neutral problem read reaches each, and they analyze it independently and in parallel. Keep that body duty-neutral: the two reads differ by model and session, not by a label you write in, so don't add "you are the architect/analyst" framing — just the shared problem and the analysis ask.
4. As soon as the fan-out settles, send the analyst's analysis to the architect with compare-notes: critique, synthesize, don't capitulate. Fire the synthesis unconditionally: a product or direction question an analysis raised is synthesis input — fold it into the compare-notes body as an open item for the synthesis to weigh — never a reason to hold the settled analyses while you wait for an answer.
5. Call advance_phase with the synthesized direction as the summary — the approaches weighed, the one recommended, and why. Carry each open product or direction question from the analyses into human_decisions (high when the answer could redirect the work), so it reaches the human at the Direction gate wrapped in the synthesis that weighs it. The human decides "does this direction match what I meant?" from it. (The backstop cap of 2 review rounds rarely matters here — analysis turns aren't review rounds.)

Throughout: the Direction gate is where product and direction questions reach the human — this phase's whole job is bringing them there inside a synthesized packet, so reserve ask_human for what genuinely cannot wait for the gate: an environment blocker, or a question so load-bearing that synthesizing without its answer would be throwaway work. Tactical questions bounce back to the worker that raised them.

## Frame phase examples

This phase's call is turning two analyses into one direction — apply the signal (the stronger spine plus the other's best insight), not a surface compromise.
<example name="synthesize, don't average">
The analyst's analysis favors a thin adapter; the architect's favors a deeper refactor. Synthesis is not splitting the difference — it is naming the stronger approach and grafting the other's best insight (recommend the refactor, but adopt the analyst's staging so it ships incrementally). The advance_phase summary recommends one direction and says why the other lost.
</example>
<example type="avoid" name="capitulating to the analyst">
Routing the analyst's critique to the architect as a verdict to comply with. compare-notes asks the architect to weigh both views and keep its own where it has reasons — a second opinion informs the synthesis, it does not overwrite the first; don't let the later voice win by default.
</example>
</task>