<task>
The human approved the spec and walked away — this is the AFK IMPLEMENTATION phase. You drive it end to end; ask_human still works but now queues the question and pauses the whole run until the human returns, so a flag is a real stop, not a quick check-in. Make each one self-contained, and let everything that can wait for the Ship gate wait.

This phase's exit gate is pre-authorized: the human granted approval at run start, so advance_phase records your packet for their later review and the run continues immediately — no live gate decision arrives, and the human is away from the terminal. Product calls that would have waited for this gate: encode the recommendation in the artifacts and the packet, and carry them forward — unless proceeding without an answer would make most of the downstream work throwaway, in which case ask_human (it still reaches the human, but pauses the whole run until they return).

The shape of the phase:

1. Have the builder commit the approved spec with a conventional message, as its own commit. Its session continues the one that wrote it and still holds it, so keep this prompt short — don't restate the design back to it.
2. Before the first slice: This is the run's first compaction. The builder still holds the whole planning stage (the framing analyses and the spec review loop) in one session, but the settled design already lives in the committed spec — so reset the window before the long slice phase. Send it a prompt whose body is literally "/compact " followed by your adapted compact-for-impl instructions, then a reread-context turn pointing at the committed spec plus the code the first slice touches. It enters the slices anchored on those artifacts rather than the path that produced them, with headroom before the slice work grows the context again. If a /compact send comes back saying it was aborted and the session reset (a hung compaction its watchdog killed at a short cap), the result tells you the recovery: the next builder turn already starts on a fresh session, so send recover-context — a status overview plus a reread — to re-anchor it, rather than resending the /compact or resuming a session that no longer holds the work.
3. Drive the implementation as a single pass, not a piece-by-piece loop with reviews between. Send the builder an implement-spec prompt: it builds the whole change from the committed spec — the spec fixes the shape and the test standards; the slicing and sequencing are the builder's own, vertical slices with a commit per slice and that slice's tests per the spec's standards. A review or a deliberate hold between slices burns a slow worker turn re-covering ground the post-implementation review (step 6) covers anyway. Never descope or thin tests to fit a turn: a fresh prompt carries a fresh budget ceiling, so trimming scope for budget is a product decision that needs work-content reasons and an honest line in the Ship packet. Have the builder put ephemeral verification harnesses (throwaway tsconfigs, probe scripts) in this run's scratch dir, .greenflag/runs/PARITYRUN/scratch/, and leave them there — it's gitignored and torn down with the run, so nothing rides the worktree as an untracked stray and there's no cleanup step. Everything else under .greenflag/ is this run's own live state and logs; the builder must never delete .greenflag/ (or anything under .greenflag/runs/) or write outside that scratch dir, because removing the run's state strands it mid-build. (Gotcha: a worker can't watch its own budget — a turn that hits the per-turn cap or time limit is cut off mechanically, surfacing as a failed or short response, not a graceful "I'm low" report. Its committed slices are on disk, so just resume that session with a short continue prompt for the rest; that's resumption, not a content failure, so don't re-send the original prompt or insert a review between those turns.)
4. Insert a midpoint checkpoint only when the implementation is genuinely large — the spec fixes the shape, not a slice list, so read the size from its scope and structural risk, and from how the builder slices the work as the build starts. Its whole value is catching a foundational problem while many slices still remain for the correction to save; a small or moderate build has too little left to pay for the extra turns, so skip it and run straight to the handoff. When you do run it, run it exactly once: have the builder stop at a sensible point partway (around the first third to half), then midpoint-status → review-midpoint → respond-midpoint. The critic weights foundational problems highest — they compound across every remaining slice — and treats unreached slices as intentionally undone, not missing. The builder then triages the points into fix-now / fold-into-the-remaining-slices / disagree, applies the fix-now items, and continues to the end — folding the rest of the guidance into the remaining slices as it goes. It does not pause again; the next stop is the handoff.
5. A second compaction is yours to time, and the context footer on each worker result is the instrument — time it by the reading, not by feel: a build phase's long turns can grow a session hundreds of thousands of tokens each, so once the builder's fill crosses 75% (the footer flags it "compaction due"), run the compaction at the next slice boundary rather than deferring it to the handoff. The natural moment is after the last slice, before the handoff — earlier whenever the gauge says so. The mechanic is the same /compact + reread-context as step 2, now with your adapted compact-for-review instructions — this one drops the build journey while the load-bearing model and test state carry into review.
6. When all slices are in: implementation-handoff from the builder, then the review loop — review-implementation to the critic, respond-review to the builder, -again variants for later rounds, fix commits as they're accepted. The backstop cap for this phase is 3 review rounds; converge well before it.
7. When the review loop has converged, reconcile the docs with what shipped — docs are part of the work the Ship gate reviews now, not a later step, so they run here on the finished, reviewed code. Send the builder the reconcile-docs prompt. Your one decision is the doc method, by precedence: if the framing names a doc-update skill or document, name it in the prompt — relay the framing's path or skill faithfully and treat it as authoritative; the builder locates and follows it, so you needn't (and can't) verify it exists. If the framing names none, send the snippet's default unchanged — it has the builder find the project's own doc skill, then reconcile by hand if there is none. Never substitute your own survey for a method the framing named — that drops the human's explicit instruction. The builder commits the docs; they ride the branch into the PR that FINISH opens (there is no docs gate — the human reviews them in the Ship packet and again in the PR). A doc-scope product call it surfaces — deleting a documented concept, rewriting a design claim, pruning a superseded doc — is yours to ask_human (it pauses the run).
8. Last, after the docs are committed: send the builder ceo-summary. Then call advance_phase with a summary that leads with the CEO summary verbatim, followed by the review history (rounds run, points raised, resolved, disputed), the docs reconciled, deviations from the spec, and the test state. The human returns from hours away and decides to ship — code and docs together — from this packet alone, so it must carry everything.

Consultant checkpoint — no frozen acceptance contract exists for this run (none was authored at the spec phase), so there is nothing to verify: skip the consultant here and note in your advance_phase packet that the implementation shipped without a frozen contract to verify against.

Throughout: flag product, direction, and environment questions with ask_human (those are still the human's even when away); tactical questions bounce to the worker that raised them.

## Implementation phase examples

This phase's call is sizing the build — one pass, or one midpoint. The spec fixes the shape, not the slices, so apply the signal (structural dependency in what's being built), not a count you don't have.
<example name="independent pieces → one pass">
The spec touches three modules — a helper, a route, a link — none depending on another's internals. One implement-spec pass: the builder slices and commits as it goes, and a mid-review would protect nothing. Review once, at the handoff.
</example>
<example name="foundation-first design → one midpoint">
The spec centers on a typed contract every later piece produces or consumes. Even a modest build warrants one checkpoint here — a wrong contract compounds through everything built on it. Have the builder pause after the foundational piece lands, then midpoint-status → review-midpoint → respond-midpoint; it folds the guidance into the rest and continues to the handoff. One pause, not per piece.
</example>
<example type="avoid" name="chunking a small build">
Driving a small build as "do the first module, hold; the next module next turn" with no structural reason. A turn boundary forced by the budget or time cap is fine; a planned hold is not — it spends an orchestrator round-trip and a slow worker turn re-establishing the context the single pass would have kept.
</example>
</task>