<task>
The human approved the spec and walked away — this is the AFK IMPLEMENTATION phase. You drive it end to end; ask_human still works but now queues the question and pauses the whole run until the human returns, so a flag is a real stop, not a quick check-in. Make each one self-contained, and let everything that can wait for the Ship gate wait.

This phase's exit gate is pre-authorized: the human granted approval at run start, so advance_phase records your packet for their later review and the run continues immediately — no live gate decision arrives, and the human is away from the terminal. Product calls that would have waited for this gate: encode the recommendation in the artifacts and the packet, and carry them forward — unless proceeding without an answer would make most of the downstream work throwaway, in which case ask_human (it still reaches the human, but pauses the whole run until they return).

The shape of the phase — the builder builds from the committed spec, then the judge reviews with write access: it fixes what it finds and owns the docs and the summary; there is no critique-and-respond loop in this phase:

1. Have the builder commit the approved spec with a conventional message, as its own commit. Name the spec's committed path in this prompt and every later first prompt — the build seeds from the document, not from any session's memory of writing it, so a first prompt reads cold: orient it (the project, the spec's path, the working branch) before the task.
2. Send the builder an implement-spec prompt: it builds the whole change from the committed spec — the spec fixes the shape and the test standards; the slicing and sequencing are the builder's own, vertical slices with a commit per slice and that slice's tests per the spec's standards. Drive it as a single pass — a deliberate hold between slices burns a slow worker turn re-covering ground the review-and-fix round covers anyway. Never descope or thin tests to fit a turn: a fresh prompt carries a fresh budget ceiling, so trimming scope for budget is a product decision that needs work-content reasons and an honest line in the Ship packet. Have the builder put ephemeral verification harnesses (throwaway tsconfigs, probe scripts) in this run's scratch dir, .duet/runs/PARITYRUN/scratch/, and leave them there — it's gitignored and torn down with the run, so nothing rides the worktree as an untracked stray and there's no cleanup step. Everything else under .duet/ is this run's own live state and logs; the builder must never delete .duet/ (or anything under .duet/runs/) or write outside that scratch dir, because removing the run's state strands it mid-build. (Gotcha: a worker can't watch its own budget — a turn that hits the per-turn cap or time limit is cut off mechanically, surfacing as a failed or short response, not a graceful "I'm low" report. Its committed slices are on disk, so just resume that session with a short continue prompt for the rest; that's resumption, not a content failure, so don't re-send the original prompt or insert a review between those turns.)
3. Insert a midpoint checkpoint only when the implementation is genuinely large — the spec fixes the shape, not a slice list, so read the size from its scope and structural risk, and from how the builder slices the work as the build starts. Its whole value is catching a foundational problem while many slices still remain for the correction to save; a small or moderate build has too little left to pay for the extra turns, so skip it and run straight to the handoff. When you do run it, run it exactly once: have the builder stop at a sensible point partway (around the first third to half), then midpoint-status → review-midpoint → respond-midpoint. The judge weights foundational problems highest — they compound across every remaining slice — and treats unreached slices as intentionally undone, not missing. The builder then triages the points into fix-now / fold-into-the-remaining-slices / disagree, applies the fix-now items, and continues to the end — folding the rest of the guidance into the remaining slices as it goes. It does not pause again; the next stop is the handoff. Mid-build the builder is the sole writer: the judge's midpoint read is guidance the builder folds in, never fixes the judge applies itself — its write authority begins at the review-and-fix round, on the finished build.
4. When all slices are in: implementation-handoff from the builder — whoever wrote the code authors the map the judge starts from.
5. The review-and-fix round: send the judge a review-and-fix prompt wrapping the handoff, pointing it at the spec's committed path and the build's commits. This is the phase's one review round, and it is writable: the judge assesses each finding, fixes the ordinary valid ones directly (fix commits, tests moved along), reports what it changed versus left as-is, and ESCALATES a product or design disagreement, intent it cannot reconstruct, or drift broad enough to mean re-deciding the direction — an escalation is yours to ask_human, never something to patch over. The backstop cap for this phase is 1 review round; a follow-up to the same judge session (a fix request from the verify below) steers by delta and needs no new round.
6. When the round has settled, reconcile the docs with what shipped — send the judge the reconcile-docs prompt (it owns the record it just judged). Your one decision is the doc method, by precedence: if the framing names a doc-update skill or document, name it in the prompt — relay the framing's path or skill faithfully and treat it as authoritative. If the framing names none, send the snippet's default unchanged. The judge commits the docs; they ride the branch into the PR that FINISH opens. A doc-scope product call it surfaces is yours to ask_human.
7. Last, after the docs are committed: send the judge ceo-summary. Then call advance_phase with a summary that leads with the CEO summary verbatim, followed by the review-and-fix summary (fixes applied, push-backs, anything escalated), the docs reconciled, deviations from the spec, and the test state. The human returns from hours away and decides to ship from this packet alone, so it must carry everything.

Consultant checkpoint — verify the frozen acceptance contract, then let the judge self-heal any failure (the consultant is bound for this run): run this as your FINAL step before advance — after the docs reconcile and the CEO summary — so it certifies the exact state you are shipping (a later code- or doc-changing turn would leave the verification stale). Send the consultant a consultant-verify prompt over a fresh, ephemeral, read-only session pointed at the frozen contract at docs/specs/parity-fixture.acceptance.md (committed and ratified at the spec gate). It re-reads each assertion, exercises the built system for evidence (run the tests, run the CLI, read logs — never edit or commit), and returns a per-assertion pass/fail with the evidence it cited. "Every assertion holds — ship" is a first-class expected outcome.

Route a failed assertion to the judge first, not to the human — it is a fact the judge can usually just fix, and the human cares only about the ones that resist fixing. Send the failing assertions and their evidence to the judge as a fix request (like routing a review finding), let it fix, then re-verify by sending a fresh consultant-verify consultant turn — a new session each time, so the check stays independent and a fix only counts when an independent re-run confirms it. Repeat this fix-then-re-verify a round or two; an assertion that passes on an independent re-run is resolved and needs nothing from the human.

Record a high human_decision (titled by the assertion) only for an assertion that still fails after that — the build cannot be made to meet its own ratified target — or if verification could not run at all. That high is the load-bearing AFK protection: it holds the pre-authorized Ship auto-cross and a one-tap afk handoff, so the run stops for the human rather than shipping past a broken target. In your advance_phase summary report the verify outcome so the human can audit it without you: which assertions passed, which the judge self-healed and in how many rounds, and which remain — plus any residual concerns the consultant raised.

Throughout: flag product, direction, and environment questions with ask_human (those are still the human's even when away); tactical questions bounce to the worker that raised them.

## Implementation phase examples

This phase's call is the judge's: resolve, or escalate. The judge fixes with its own hands, so the line between "an issue to fix" and "a decision to reopen" is what keeps the human's gates real. Apply the substance test, not the size of the diff.
<example name="an ordinary finding is fixed, not filed">
The judge finds a missing error path and a test asserting internals instead of behavior. Both are ordinary valid findings — it fixes them directly with fix commits and moves the tests along; routing them back to the builder would spend a slow turn re-explaining what the judge already understands.
</example>
<example name="a substance disagreement escalates">
The judge concludes the doc's chosen seam puts state in the wrong module now that the code is real — the fix would move a boundary the human ratified. That is a design disagreement, not a defect: the judge stops that thread, and you ask_human with its reasoning; patching it silently would hide a pivot inside a review.
</example>
<example type="avoid" name="re-deciding the build under review">
The judge dislikes the builder's structure and starts rewriting module by module. The build's approach was the builder's to choose within the doc; wholesale re-deciding it is the drift the escalation valve exists for — it should understand the intent first, fix what is wrong, and escalate what is contested.
</example>
</task>